as these ants are curved back cannot
open the sender up a little bit but once
we have these two curves with our well
this one the double taper mandrel we can
use this tool and pull these in together
to squeeze it close so we've got two
perfect little spots that it fits in we
can also use this double tapered mandrel
to hold it in such a way that we can
lightly tap and form right on here to
make them even here again if you have
registration marks or at least so that
you know that each curl is the same
length then we can tell when event but
this kind of forming I will do quite
frequently right here at the bench so
we've just got a much smaller bezel
mandrel instead of a ring mandrel really
it's just an anvil we're just going to
use a round anvil and put it in and now
if I needed to adjust these I'd have
this so it was locked in place but I
didn't form these over this stationary
anvil slash mandrel if I needed to if we
wanted to flare the ends we could put it
on here and then we could Forge the end
if we're using a steel hammer and the
mandrel of steel on the inside then
technically we'd be forging or
planishing but we curved them it was a
kneeled we curved them they're still
soft we can harden them just by working
them over this surface either with the
mallet or with a hammer but the the best
and easiest depending on the thickness
of the metal is just this so we've right
here if I can stabilize this since this
is an old pair I'd probably not be
opposed to doing this if it was a really
good pair I make a different tool but if
we turn it around and work from both
sides we just look for the radius the
curve that we wanted
adjust them as we adjust them and it
pulls it together it's gonna make the
ring smaller so just work in four then
we put it on here readjust the shape as
it pulls it open readjust this shape and
you've notice a lot of stuff we're doing
it's a process of working in this
direction and preventing it we're kind
of working two different things it
sequentially once we have it on here
really easy to pull them together
pulling them together the combination of
this double tapered mandrel tool and the
ring mandrel we can keep the center of
the ring round as we squeeze these
together if we squeeze too far you can
see it would take the curves out and
they would open up again and so it's
little adjustments making little
adjustments and I'm not guaranteeing
that perfect it's only it's pretty near
but you can see that if we if we have
round tools and we have a lot of round
taper tools it makes it really easy to
make things matches thanks - not pulled
together it's my childhood I pull it
together so this one we could do the
same way if we could put it on the
mantel and is this similar to the right
sides inside so we just need to close
this up so if we find where it goes on
the mandrel if we could do it just so
here's another tip that's helpful as
we're doing that it doesn't hurt to to
each stage just trace it on your paper
real quickly so then you've got a little
evolutionary diagramming of it also as
we as we adjust these in they're not
quite straight we could take two pairs
of pliers and grab it like this and
adjust them or we could just put it up
on the bench pin and using our best
friend leverage you can just gently push
which side that we need to if we had to
do that with a mallet and just tap them
we're the other we could do that